SSO with Keycloak (#202)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/administration/pages/auth-methods-pam.adoc

[[auth-methods]]
= Authentication With PAM

{productname} supports network-based authentication systems using pluggable authentication modules (PAM).
PAM is a suite of libraries that allows you to integrate {productname} with a centralized authentication mechanism, eliminating the need to remember multiple passwords.
{productname} supports LDAP, Kerberos, and other network-based authentication systems using PAM.

.Procedure: Enabling PAM

. Create a PAM service file at [path]``/etc/pam.d/susemanager``.
A standard [path]``/etc/pam.d/susemanager`` file should look like this.
It configures {productname} to use the system wide PAM configuration:
+
----
#%PAM-1.0
auth     include        common-auth
account  include        common-account
password include        common-password
session  include        common-session
----
. Enforce the use of the service file by adding this line to [path]``/etc/rhn/rhn.conf``:
+
----
pam_auth_service = susemanager
----
+
In this example, the PAM service file is called [systemitem]``susemanager``.
. Restart the {productname} services after a configuration change.

> . In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to [menuitem]``Create User`` and enable a new or existing user to authenticate with PAM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:Users[Create User] and enable a new or existing user to authenticate with PAM.
```
"Create User" is probably wrong if you want to edit an existing user.  This probably must be done with the user's details page.  See reference:pages:users/user-details.adoc.  Hope I got it right.

. Check the [guimenu]``Pluggable Authentication Modules (PAM)`` checkbox.
It is below the password and password confirmation fields.

[IMPORTANT]
====
Changing the password in the {productname} {webui} changes only the local password on the {productname} Server.
If PAM is enabled for that user, the local password might not be used at all.
In the above example, for instance, the Kerberos password will not be changed.
Use the password change mechanism of your network service to change the password for these users.
====

To configure system-wide authentication you can use YaST.
You will need to install the [package]``yast2-ldap-client`` and [package]``yast2-kerberos-client`` packages.

For more information about configuring PAM, the SUSE Linux Enterprise Server Security Guide contains a generic example that will also work for other network-based authentication methods.

> It also describes how to configure an Active Directory Service.

Reviewer: do we actually want to capitalize it?

Author: no, I don't think so.
